this is side two of our librarians okay so so his idea was that um the library was specialized in information and people could you know get this other stuff other other places basically and um and then also that the library would be self-service i think the idea was that you weren't going to have much money so you had to make the library as self-service as possible so you would put all these machines in
And then people would just push buttons and they'd get what they wanted without having to have a stop there to help you.
So you've got an awesome system you could possibly have.
Talk to Regina about this show.
She loves this show.
Talk about what?
Technology at the New Main Library.
Technology in our system.
First thing she found out when she got there is this.
We have no high technology.
I was in her office the other day and the shades automatically dropped.
And I said, this is the most high tech thing we've got in this building.
And she's booted together with me.
Did anybody work with the architect?
I mean, the thing that struck me in visiting the place and it was even more profound looking at this tape today, I mean, I guess it's a pretty building.
It depends on your taste.
But it's open space.
It's all this money spent for sight lines and sunlight, which is not good in life.
Whenever you work with architects on a library, and I did, I worked with, not directly, but whenever you work with architects on a library project, probably on any project, you know that it's going to fail because you know that their architecture is going to
The books are exposed to the sun, and the people are down below.
Up here, and the reading room is down, and the books come, and they're in the sun, and they're in the sun.
That's right, because now they go to the British Library, and of course,
A lot of the British people think it's ugly, but actually, I've been through it.
It's magnificent.
It's beautiful.
It's brilliant, and the books are way down below, and, you know, seven, eight levels.
And the thing is really designed to be a library.
The French library is a statement.
I mean, it's a cultural statement.
Well, that was a competition.
That was a competition.
And then Dominique Carroll is 36 years old.
I mean, I was there.
I spent three days there last month.
And it's a...
I'll go to the new German library next month, by the way, in Frankfurt.
Frankfurt, and then they have a brand new preservation facility.
Oh, my goodness, you're going to do that grand tour that Kathy and Ken did before.
Anyway, Kathy Page was in charge of the project.
She was.
Ken Dallin was not in any way.
I should really talk to her then, huh?
Yes, you should.
She's coming back on Monday.
Really?
She's going to be in David Price's office.
Sorry, I'll give her a telephone call.
Sure.
She was responsible for developing, doing the building program, and I worked with her.
I was her assistant.
What was her title?
She was an assistant lawyer.
She was chief of facilities, for facilities development.
So she had a vested interest in this thing.
She knew.
And she filled in for Dowland after Dowland.
Yeah, but she was going to be the chief of this new library.
That was going to be her role.
And she, yeah, exactly.
And she knew that she would have to deal with, and she knew that it was going to be a struggle with the architects all the way along.
She saw her role as keeping it in check and having a reason, ending up with a reasonable product that was... Was she a book person?
She's a librarian, but she's not a book person.
But she came as a reference librarian.
I mean, that's her history.
Did Dallin bring her in?
Dallin brought her in.
So she was basically loyal to him.
Yes, she was.
Well, they all were loyal to him.
It was like a corporate... No, they hated him.
They all hated him.
They would get together and just talk about how much they hated him.
But for him to pick her... Well, she took a test.
They took a test.
She took a chief test.
She took a test for library chief, and she scored number one on the test.
No, it's a civil service test.
She took a civil service test and got the test.
But you have to keep interviews and stuff.
Yeah.
But after all is done and done, when she left, nobody was sad.
Well, when she became chief of this monstrosity that she had built,
She's just a horrible person and a horrible supervisor.
So she couldn't be... But she made an attempt, because you'll see some of it in some of these documents.
She realized it was a big mistake.
Yeah, but I mean, when did she realize it?
Too late.
Well, one of the really bad things that happened was... I'm not a librarian, but it seems to me if I'm building a new library, I need shelves.
I need rooms.
I need conservation.
Well, it was designed for 20 years of growth.
I'm telling you, I was there for that process.
It was designed.
We counted the collection.
We added 50%.
Well, how big was the collection when you counted it?
I don't know.
There's two and a half million books in this TV thing.
Right.
At one time, that's correct.
Well, it's always very complicated.
Do you have a million books in New Maine?
It has to do with the government documents, the pieces of microfiche, it depends on who you're talking to, what they're really talking about.
But we did the spreadsheets, we did 50% growth, and then we translated that into what the architects had given us for what spaces would be, and it looked like it would fit, and then they discovered they couldn't put in a second floor below.
which was going to be an entire city block of compact stacks.
But keep in mind that that would not be browsable, those would not be re-browsable books.
This isn't like UC Berkeley, where it's compact stacks, it's self-service.
This is totally, you have to be patient.
But they could have been.
I mean, if it had come to a crunch, I mean, just like Brooks Hall, the staff could, I mean, the public could have gone.
But anyway, they lost an immense amount of shelving.
And I said to Kathy Page when that happened,
Well, what are we going to do?
The thing is designed.
We've got, you know, their grand design.
And what are we going to do about the shelving?
Well, it's a public project.
And when that happens... Did they bring consultants or anything like that to say, hey, you're screwing this thing up in a very big way?
No, the Department of Public Works was overseeing this project.
And the library was not even the client.
The library was the sort of peripheral, but they were supposed to be overseeing it for expenditure.
I mean, mainly, it would be kept on the hundred million dollars, and the architects were constantly fighting that or ignoring what we were saying about what our needs were in terms of money, because they were trying to make this grand thing.
We lost that space for books.
I said, what are we going to do?
Are we going to call the halls?
I was her assistant.
Ah, you were Captain Cage's assistant?
I said, doesn't this mean we have to stop and redesign?
And she said, oh, no, no.
We'll find her.
And that's always what she said.
And the thing about Kathy Page is that she tends to have the sin of omission.
You know, people say, who's her now?
She kept everything very close.
Now, is this for the one that was lost because of money or because of the underground stream?
Well, the underground stream caused it to be expensive.
Oh, I think.
Down here?
Yes.
There's an underground stream?
Under the library.
Now, ask Gray about the underground stream.
They should have known that they had a creek under there.
They did know.
They called it a legend.
It's a public project, and a public project is not funded enough.
It's never funded enough, right?
They knew all these things.
I mean, they put a... Dallin took $5 million out of the bond to satisfy the branch library to get Proposition A passed for the new name.
He said it would be to renovate all of the branch libraries.
$5 million.
$5 million went to two, and that was gone.
So with the public project, there's always this...
Ignorant.
This fellow Chafee I'm supposed to talk to, he apparently has filed a number of suits.
Against the library submission.
And one of them, of course, and I said, well, could you just characterize him?
He's going to show me that.
He said, yeah, well, one of them was there was money left and allocated to buy books.
And they were taking the money.
The permanent funds.
And instead they were using it to buy computers.
And I said, hey, you're violating the terms of this trust.
And he said, so they went to court, and they have now succeeded in changing it, apparently, and now he lost.
He lost the case because they said that he didn't have any standing before the court, because a citizen can't, say, complain about the process.
Well, what can't you?
It's a public library.
As a patron, if he had a library card, it would seem to be he has standing.
That would be my thing.
I know.
Well, the thing is, he's hardly ever been successful, because there's always a weird thing that happened, though, to it one.
Yeah.
Anyway, Kathy was victimized by the whole, I mean, it was set up for a failure.
It was.
It would have been very difficult given that Ken Dallin was your boss and that DPW was involved and that these architects.
Oh, here, I can read you this book.
Oh, yeah.
Do you know this one, The Giant's House?
No.
It's written by a librarian from the Fine Arts Work Center, Robinson.
Oh, yeah, The Giant's House by Elizabeth McCracken.
I had my library.
It's about a librarian, too.
I had my library, which I loved and despised.
All librarians, deep down, loathe their buildings.
Something is always wrong.
The counter is too high, the shelves too narrow, the delivery entrance too far from the offices,
The Hallway Echoes, The Lights from Windows Bleach Books.
In short, libraries are constructed by architects, not librarians.
Do not trust an architect.
He will always try to talk you into an atrium.
Will you ask to spell her name to me?
Elisabeth Macken.
Nick M. C. Kraken.
C-R-A-C-K-E-N.
What is it?
Is this the recent novel?
No, it's a novel.
It's a recent novel.
It's from 1996.
Yeah, it was published.
Well, it's...
Dial Press.
It's about a librarian who falls in love with a giant boy on Cape Cod.
Really?
Yes.
Wonderful.
Oh, I heard about this.
She lives in the North Shore.
Can I just see it for a second?
Yes, she was in the province and she went to the Finance Center.
Oh, I heard about this.
Sure, she's a librarian.
Yeah.
Yeah, the gold had a story on her.
They will always give you an A to me.
And we have another ancient article that talks about the same atrium thing.
Remember?
Remember that article that you wrote?
Oh, yes, N.Y.
Buckle.
Oh, yes.
What is that?
N.Y.
Buckle.
That library from... Oh, yes.
There's a very funny ancient article from the 1970s, right?
Right, right.
About how architect's script library did that.
this new library that we've built, and it's got all of the things that are wrong with the new main library included in this vision.
So what's the solution to this?
You've got this $200 million.
It's got to be all of that, right?
No, no, it keeps getting bigger and bigger.
Let me get to my... I had a point, though, that things were not going well, and it wasn't the library we had all dreamed it would be.
But what really went wrong was that
The Library Foundation told Kathy Page that new library is opening on April 18, 1995.
Come hell or high water.
Now, 96.
Anyone who works on a project, a building project, knows that you add a year to the end of any closing date.
Well, she accepted that date.
and the place should not have been open for another year.
Even DPW people said she's not even open.
So because of that, books were dumped.
All of a sudden, she freaked out.
They were going to move the books in, and all of a sudden, oh, we have no room.
By 1995, though, and I have an email message from January 96, but in 1995, right before the old library closed,
Walter Biller said he remembers this.
He said he could hear screams in the library.
It was the day we found out that our periodical collection wouldn't fit into the new main library.
He could hear screams from the library staff.
And I said, oh yeah, that was the day we found out the periodical collection, 60% of the periodical collection would not fit into the new main library.
and they were beside themselves.
The librarians in art and music and business and science were hysterical.
So what did you do, cancel subscriptions?
No, they just moved.
almost every bound periodical pre-1985 over to Brooks Hall.
Which means it's 24 hours to get those periodicals.
And of course, most people don't know that, so they come and expect you to be able to get something.
Yeah, sure, I need the Olympic Monthly from 1975.
Right, exactly.
Well, maybe you'll get it in the newspaper and magazine center.
Maybe you'll get it.
But there are many other... Well, I need foreign affairs.
Foreign affairs are quite possible.
I thought it was everyone.
No, it's almost everyone.
Almost everyone.
There's some selected titles that they have the full run.
Yeah, accessible.
But it's not accessible, isn't it?
Well, no, it's not an open shelf.
Well, it's even more insidious because you don't know what we're talking about.
You don't know.
Exactly.
And probably the library doesn't know either.
Well, it was even more controversial because the New Mains put all the periodicals in one place and took them from the subject department.
So not only were they not going to have them in their subject department anymore, but they weren't even going to have them in the building.
So that's what the streaming was about.
This is part of the legacy, Kathy Page's legacy, is that she...
insisted on this.
This is what happened with the New Main Library being so small, and she made sure that those periodicals were put into Brooks Hall.
The librarians had to do it.
They had to follow her instructions, and then she also was the one who started panicking and called for the weeding of the books in Brooks Hall, which
which moved to the weeding of books.
So who did the weeding?
I mean, were you ever called upon to do any other weeding?
No, I wasn't.
There are certain departments that didn't weed.
That's right.
They refused.
So there's heroes, real heroes among the library staff.
Will I be able to talk to some of these people?
I hope so.
Do you have a suggestion for how that will happen?
Well, I have already started speaking with some of them.
What's a good day?
I'm going to be there Wednesday morning, you know, to be there.
Yeah, well, I think you need to go walk around, and people need to see you, too.
Well, I'm just saying that it's a good day.
Yeah.
But maybe you should talk to, like, Cher or Johanna.
Cher and Johanna.
I've already spoken with Johanna.
Pat Hall, I don't know.
What's a good day to do that?
Can you get them to call him?
I'd be happy just to come over.
See, that's the other part, too.
Everybody's so overworked, they may need to call you.
So I've sort of been asking people, would you give me permission to give Nick Bassbaines your telephone number?
Some of them have already started saying yes.
And I told a couple of people to call you.
Some guy called me.
Phil Silverstein?
Yeah, who is he?
Oh, Phil is wonderful.
He's a patron.
He's a patron, yeah.
I couldn't...
I couldn't make out what he said.
He's a very funny guy, but he came to a library commission meeting.
He was somebody I worked with like 15 years ago.
He was an actor, very funny.
But he came to one library commission meeting, I think, maybe two, and just did a wonderful explanation of what was wrong with building.
The checkout stands were on a curve like this, so if you're waiting here, you can't see.
when the next person's station is open.
I mean, all of these clubs, all these design clubs... But clearly the kinds of things that only a person who uses a library would be unlikely to ever be aware of.
It's so sad, because when you're involved in programming and doing it, you think, we thought of everything, we have to think of everything, and it really is a tremendous version.
But, unfortunately, I have no sympathy for Kathy Page, even though it was a pretty dream.
But you look at the British Library, they have thought of everything.
Of course, they've been building the thing for 20 years, and it's not done, and it's not done.
When it's done, it's going to be done.
Oh, well, that's the other thing that happened.
That's what you were just saying.
The commission was saying, on budget, on time, on program.
See, they have a statement.
I think this is about glitz and making a statement and about the private family.
the public-private partnership, and how great it worked out, and everybody's included.
Well, everybody wasn't included, but it really was about a statement that these people were making.
And so it became a symbol of everything that was wrong.
Nothing turned out right.
Is there anybody happy with it?
Some patrons, some of the public... Some people like the building.
Some people in the public like the building.
But it's noisy.
It's really noisy.
I went in there last year, and I went on a tour.
That was a year ago.
But not only that, I remember sitting and you could hear people talking way over there.
The acoustics are wonderful.
I mean, but it's not... It's not supposed to be.
It's very noisy.
I mean, in our department, there's a big barrel of killing.
And it conducts noise beautifully.
We saw that in libraries.
We went to visit some libraries and we saw that in one library.
You can hear every word that happens.
I left the tape recorder one for about ten minutes just to pick up the phone.
Oh, that's good.
But here's the other thing.
Here's the other thing.
Take a look at all the terminals and all the internet, the Netscape, the PCs.
They're all put out where they can make the most noise to people who are trying to read.
Oh yes, and the security gate.
Everything that happens in the bottom floor of the atrium goes up and is amplified.
A crying child in the checkout line could just drive you wild.
On the third floor, there is no glass.
Third, wait, is it the third and fourth floors?
On the fifth, no, on the fourth floor, it is glassed in.
On the fifth floor, it's glassed in.
Third floor, no glass.
We said, is it possible that
The architects could be made to glass in the third floor.
Because it's evidently a big problem.
And then we were told by one of the engineers, if they did that, then they would have to totally reconfigure the HVAC system.
The direction of the air flow and all that business.
But it's created massive problems.
And not only that, we had a recent patron who threatened to throw himself off.
No.
Where?
Well, we've been expecting that.
Yes, we have.
We have been waiting for that.
He was on the third floor.
On the third floor balcony.
This wasn't because of anger at the library.
No, just anger at his room.
You would assume that it probably had his sad life.
This was just a suicide attempt.
Well, we already had a suicide attempt on behalf of a book that threw itself off one of the Atlas cases and landed next to a patron on the first war.
Oh, no.
It tried to kill itself.
They had to move the Atlas cases away from the light well.
Do it again.
What happened now?
What really happened was there were map, you know, Atlas cases.
But you could hear big books.
Big books.
And the Atlases were sitting on top of the Atlas cases that were right next to the light well.
Did you get killed by a book?
And one of them must have been pushed by someone or something.
And the book, the Atlas, big, heavy book,
flipped over and down through the light well and landed on the first floor.
How many floors did it fall?
Three.
That's a missile.
That is it.
It could have really hurt somebody.
And so it landed?
And it landed on the floor on the first floor.
That's a tremendous sound.
Well, the third floor, the humanity staff was very upset.
So they immediately moved the atlas to it.
They were there in a bad position anyway.
Besides the atrium, it was badly designed everywhere.
It is very much like the Rio de Janeiro in that there was a lot of theory that went into it, this occupied wall.
ideas you know about that and you know from light into i do yes i do yeah and the light into dark and all this stuff so you have this sort of like the book the library as a text oh yeah and bridges into the light right and the light and the you know
It used to be there.
I'm sorry.
Oh, really?
A fellow in France.
But he had this bold idea with the four books facing each other and a forest in the middle.
But see, there's the grand statement, too.
This is Mitterrand's grand statement.
Oh, it is.
And you know what?
The French love it.
Oh, they do?
Oh, I heard the librarians are having a hell of a time.
Well, I talked to the head lady, Jacqueline Sanson, who basically works for the top guy.
She's not a librarian, but she is.
And my wife was with me, and I went,
I said, well, listen, it's a beautiful place, but what do you think about it?
I mean, you're moving the books.
They're taking down a wall, and the books are going over there.
And she said, you know, I'm proud that my country built all this money to build a library and did this for books.
And she said, and really?
I can't worry about things that I can't control.
I mean, I have to live with it.
She said, guess what?
I don't like the books up at the top.
What can I do?
So I'm working within this, what they've given me, and that's it.
And that pitch about it is basically what she said.
So I guess the reason I mention this is... What can we do?
That's why I say, look, you've got a $200 million thing over there.
We're not going to tear it down.
They are going to have a post-occupancy assessment, but unfortunately it's going to be done by an architect.
But they are really going to look at it and see what can be done to repair the dysfunctionality.
Is it a dysfunctional library?
Yes.
Well, for one thing, the book drops.
Oh, yeah.
The book, there's a... The book, it kills you.
And, you know, if you read the New Yorker thing, I mean, the stuff goes down, these books go down one at a time.
It rips books apart.
Instead of them, it's like sending your shirts through the airport luggage handling thing without a suitcase.
Right.
So the books are constantly getting ruined.
And Annette has a wonderful copy of Itacidus, I believe it was, that was completely ripped to shreds.
But one thing that can happen is that we could get all of the book haul.
It could be made really, you know, humidity and temperature.
Environmentally controlled.
Right.
And it could be made attractive.
And it could be made into browsable books.
Part of the trouble is that people cannot browse, which makes the building far more labor-intensive.
than it would otherwise be... So that was never intended to be browsable?
No, and that was the thing.
I remember asking Dalton, because they would have these public forums and staff things, and I remember asking him at one of these things, will the books be browsable?
And he said, well, unless there's some reason for them not to be.
So we end up with a library with huge areas of compact stores which are not intended to be and never can be browsable because they're mixed in with the office space.
It's not like... That's right.
It's all mixed in with office space.
So huge areas, and...
There's not much you can do about that, but maybe there's, I don't know, but maybe there's some way to put parts of the collection of books that could be browsed.
But you need the librarians near the... You need to cover up the light walls.
I mean, there are things that they can do.
They can make more floor spaces.
I don't know what they can do.
But we also even entertained the idea of taking back the old main library.
Yeah, that's what we'd really like to do.
Or even looking at the federal building behind us.
The federal building behind us is possibly going to be vacated.
I mean, my vast... Oh, also the old mint.
Too far away.
So Brooks Hall was, for me...
one of the very last possibilities because it is so gruesome.
Well, I'm in favor of it without knowing anything about it, and that's why it might be interesting to talk to somebody like Chuck Davis, who designed the new underground library at Berkeley, which has, you know, oodles of extra space, even though they do still have tons of stuff in storage at NLRF.
But it's that, you know, I don't like being underground either, but it's right there.
It's so close.
And even the federal buildings,
But the problem is that the people at Bill Graham Civic Center need access, need to park there.
Yeah, but I mean, how much space?
No, no, no, it's the exhaust.
No, but I'm talking about building a building within Brooks Hall.
I'm talking about really doing it completely.
And I don't know, maybe it would be better to have this.
For a while, the mayor was even saying that we should have the old library back.
Build a tunnel.
Great.
For a week, we were all in some clouds.
And the weird thing about it is that there was no reason that we had to give up that building in the first place.
We didn't need it.
We didn't sell it.
We passed the bond issue by 78%.
We didn't need to sell it.
That building in order to remain.
And since we didn't sell it, maybe we should get some other piece of property for free.
And the money to fix it up.
I know.
But if people really want to let, part of the trouble is that Dowlin and Colter did nothing to pass originally, to come up with the idea of passing Prop B, which actually doubled our budget.
We were going to have to run this library on half the money that we have now.
And it would have meant exactly what the branch people, advocates, had been saying, which was the new main library is going to
wipe out the branches.
If Proposition E had not passed, we would have had to run the system on $15 million.
And Dowling did not tell the public, and Coulter did not tell the public, you know, we're building this new building, but not only is there the bond, but we're going to have to have a lot more money to really make it work.
That didn't happen.
It took a few library activists to get this thing put on the ballot, and then they finally came around and, well, Dowling didn't, but Coulter and some of those other people came around and tried to help pass it.
But in addition, that's not enough money.
If you want to have a library that does the traditional functions, as well as the internet on every terminal and lots of databases and lots of confusing stuff, you're going to need more money.
And the people may be willing to pay for it because it's still going to be a bargain.
And you need to have staff.
Are you buying any books?
Not right now.
We have a budget.
Our budget is less than it was last year.
much less than it was two years ago.
And there's always been a lot of inflation of, like, you know, they would run around saying, oh, the book budget was $4.5 million, which was never true.
You should really talk to Anne Routman.
Oh, yeah.
Anne Routman.
I mean, we have librarians who say things like, Dalvin hates books, but she would never say it in public.
No, she might talk to you probably.
She may.
She might.
I think, Nick, maybe you need to see the...
public spaces as well as the back-of-the-house spaces, too.
The answer to that big question is we don't know what would be... We didn't set out to... I hate this when people say, when you're progressive or leftist, they say, well, what's your alternative?
I don't know what the alternative is for this mess.
This building is a mess.
People are entertaining lots of ideas like...
In fact, I even said this at a meeting one time, we should just go back to the old building.
Oh, because at least it was emotional.
You could put our books in it.
We don't even have room for our current collection.
What about growth?
If we have growth now, every time we bring a book in, a book has to go out.
And this is supposed to be for the 21st century?
Yeah, and that's what they're saying.
Now, you know, there's a really interesting article I didn't tell you about by Sheila Bowd, who was the librarian at
She was like head of reference or something at UC Berkeley for many years.
It was very nice.
Called Alexandria Revisited, which was in a journal called something like The Bottom Line, I think, which was for library budgeting.
And she lives in Berkeley.
And Steve Colter has her number.
So you can get her number from Steve Colter.
What does she mean by Alexandria?
she means that try to have really try to work towards the libraries that are more and more comprehensive and the point of the article was that academic librarians even were saying at one point that um there was just no way that libraries could sort of keep up with growth and therefore it should have to be kind of one book in one book i don't think she said that exactly but her point was knowledge grows old knowledge does not
is not to plant as my new knowledge.
If you're going to have a real library, it's going to have to be perpetually growing.
It doesn't mean you can't weed anything, but it's going to have to keep growing, because knowledge grows.
It's not like you can throw out old dutchies into your new stuff.
But somebody like Colter or Dowling, you know, they're just, you know, it's got to be practical.
Everything's going to be out of line.
Yeah, but they're just incredible.
You don't talk about knowledge anyway.
It's all new and it's nice.
Nobody's reading books anyway.
You just watch videos.
You know, Dallin thought everybody would just get stuck at the first stop, and it would be like a bookstore.
You'd have multiple copies of things.
But they just didn't even do it nicely.
It's not even a nice bookstore.
Stupid.
You said there were no acquisitions?
Is that an exaggeration?
Well, it's because there's... We haven't purchased a book since September.
Now you're talking special collections.
A year of special collections.
In the general, at the branches, we have not purchased a book since May.
Right.
Any book.
Well, no.
We do get McNaughton books.
Do you know about those?
No.
Rental books.
Those are rental books from the Broad Art Company.
Basically.
And those are the best sellers.
So we do have some best sellers.
Maybe these are rental books.
The McNaughton Company is a company that you pay, it's a subscription, and the library pays them a certain amount, so each branch has a quota, and they can order these books, and we keep them for one or two years, and then we send them back.
Now, this is something that actually makes me like my opinion.
It's not a rental for the public.
It is interesting in terms of last copy.
Yeah, it's like video tapes from, you know,
Yeah, it's kind of weird because they're kind of selected by whoever they're selected, as I know, for being high, having a lot of publicity.
Where are they at at McNaughton?
They're in Brodart.
They're part of Brodart, and Brodart is the computer game stuff.
No, that's Broderbund.
Broderbund, that's in Moran.
Broderbund is in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
B-R-O-D?
A-R-T.
And I wrote a paper about McNaughton when I was in library school saying librarians shouldn't give up their, you know, ability to form their own collections.
Williamsport.
It's where, you know, home of Little League Baseball.
The books actually cost just as much as it would cost to buy them.
And in fact, sometimes they're talking a lot more.
Yeah, but you have to keep them.
That's good.
For people like Dell, who doesn't want it.
Right, you want 17 million copies of something.
You keep it.
Basically, you're keeping it for the shelf life of the book.
Right.
As long as it's on the bestseller list.
But the librarians have it.
You know, he's asking for it.
It goes back to.
And you know what they do?
They recondition the books and sell them.
They file them.
You'll love it.
They file down the edges of the book so they're no longer briny, and they put a new miler on them or something, I don't know, and then they sell them.
I mean, they sell them to, like, bookstores or something.
They're actually... They pay for the... Somebody pays for the postage.
I mean, you know, some of them are actually in very good shape because they don't go out that much.
But we have the choice of purchasing them for the collection.
$50 each.
So I do, but I... How many libraries do this, I wonder.
Oh, a lot.
The branch is probably more than anything else.
Yes, yes, not the main anymore.
Yeah.
The reason that it's...
desirable in some ways.
They used to come with all the cards already.
They come faster.
How long has this been going on?
Oh, years.
They're so big deals.
78 now.
But anyway, those are the only books we have.
Thank God we have Nick Naughton.
Because otherwise we don't have anything.
We have not had a book.
And there is a good thing about Nick Naughton, which is that you don't have to stick with the list they send you.
Often those books are really pretty bad.
And, I mean, they're not really best sellers.
So you can request.
So you can ask for anything that's in print as long as I'm a fairly major publisher.
And there's a weird thing, like if it's under $24, it counts as one book.
But if it's between $24 and $29, it counts for two books.
So you don't really want to waste two points.
So you kind of tend to do it for the books that are under $24.
But, yeah, you can call up and order anything.
So that's actually great.
And they'll put it in the catalog.
So I can order stuff.
that I couldn't ordinarily get, and it comes pretty carefully.
Yeah, they do can.
But the point of this is that we have no money other than ordering.
Well, and the reason is because of the domestic equality and benefits ordinance passed by San Francisco.
Do you know about that?
It requires all vendors who deal with San Francisco.
I'm taking a break.
Okay.
All vendors who deal with San Francisco must sign things they may comply with
offering benefits to domestic partners.
Well, that's right.
I didn't know about that.
It's like the South Africa or the ordinance or something like that.
So right now we're trying to sign our major vendor, which is Baker and Taylor, but their president is a Mormon, and he's not going to sign it.
So we're trying to get compliance from all these vendors.
And in the meantime, we aren't buying anything.
So we've fallen very much behind, even like the most, like Berkeley Public and all the local public libraries.
We should quit pretty soon.
I think everybody's getting tired.
Yeah, we're tired.
You're getting way too much.
But the whole Eve of Cedar, the whole year and how that was successful was so fabulous.
I have to come up with a program.
August 2, 1997, in the San Francisco Bay Guardian, he said, basically the staff is okay, but, well, first of all, he said, no one will want to come here to be the city librarian because of all the labor unrest, and that basically the staff's okay except for these ten white women, these ten pot stirrers who are all white women.
So he talked to... Well, why was that significant?
He's trying to make it significant.
Say that we're white and we don't have the right to stir any pots.
We don't have the right to do anything.
And what we're doing is racist.
And that you don't represent any of the special interest groups.
Any of these special interest groups.
Who they represent.
Right.
They're trying to take over the... Who they claim to represent.
They're the politically correct and we're just these white women.
Carried to the...
It's very absurd, and mainly because who works in a library?
White women.
I didn't hire the people.
The union did not hire the people who work in the library.
We are who there are.
You know, that's who we are.
Now, how did you become a librarian?
Oh, my goodness.
I've been a librarian since 1970.
Are you from here?
I'm from Wisconsin.
Did you go to library school?
Went to library school in Wisconsin.
It's still a real library school.
Yep.
One of the last ones.
And the Midwest has a, and the East, too, but the Midwest has a wonderful tradition of public libraries and supporting public libraries.
They have great library schools, too.
Yep.
And when I came to California, I was so shocked.
I worked in Boston for a while.
I worked in Somerville.
Did you?
And the Thomas Crane Public Library in, oh, where is it?
and I've forgotten the name of the place.
Memphis?
No, it's South.
South of Boston?
Yeah.
Oh, darn.
South of Boston.
I can't even remember.
Quincy.
Yes, Quincy.
I worked in Quincy Public.
That's all that South of Boston have.
Then you get to the king.
Right, right.
So I worked at Quincy, and so I had that experience.
When I came to California, I was shocked.
It's just like the education system, the libraries are not supported.
San Francisco is maybe this great liberal city, but it's... I lived out here when I was in this room, back in the late 60s.
You know, I mean, this is not an intellectual... Despite Stanford and UC.
Oh, it's down there.
That's over there.
The city itself?
Absolutely not.
You know, a little Worcester, where I have more schools.
There's a better art museum, by far.
The schools here are...
the third lowest in the country in support.
I believe that.
Hey, how about some coffee?
Yeah.
He says he's getting ready to do colado.
I'm still on these clothes.
Yeah, he's really tired.
Did you do melatonin?
Did I what?
I have the family.
When you fly?
You know, you can take, some people don't do this, of course, but you can take, you know, at 3 o'clock, there's a whole routine that was in a Jane Brody column.
Really?
Yeah.
And apparently it works pretty well.
You can do it on the way back.
My problem is I wake up my... At the old time.
At the old time.
I was awake this morning at 5 o'clock.
You know, that was that weird.
Thank you for bringing this.
Well, it's just, yeah, it's terrific.
I'm probably even...
You know, I just bought it.
I just got it.
At the co-op?
At the Harvard book store, not the coop.
Oh, the coop, sorry.
That's what I think.
Arthur worked at the coop.
The library, you know, has this Library Express.
It's pay for service.
Even when we haven't bought any new books, we still have Library Express working at $60 an hour for whoever has.
Two and a half people?
And, you know, that's another thing we're opposed to because even though, you know, the library can't supply everything to everybody that they want, but it should focus on supplying things which we can share.
That's what libraries are about.
They're about sharing.
And if it's something where we have to discriminate between this person who can pay and that person who can't,
and we give more to those who can afford it, it really kind of destroys the quality which libraries help to create in our culture.
And so that's one of the things that, another thing that we're very unhappy about.
Can I ask, so do you think Tuesday is a good day to come over?
Yeah.
to the library.
What do you think about Brooks Hall?
Is this something that... I don't know whether she... I could call her tomorrow and ask her if she, you know, when it comes, but I sent her an email.
We didn't even realize what kind of medieval situation we had.
I mean, we knew it was bad, but when we first met with her and realized that, oh, this is the truth... Well, she's a librarian.
Yeah.
She's a frontline librarian.
She works the frontline.
But she's very truthful, and she'll just tell it like it is.
And Dallin...
specialized in untruths.
And he had a spinmeister who did his spin for him.
And that was one of the first things he did when he came to the library was set up an office of community relations and get somebody out front.
And he told Regina, his only advice to Regina was, the city charter says you can hire five special assistants.
I suggest you do it.
And here's this woman who just found out that the budget was $3.2 million off because
he had 100 unfunded positions, and he tells her this, and she says, it became awful.
It was very clear that he wants a buffer between him and the public, and he has no regard for budgets of any kind.
And she knows that it's not going to work.
She's a librarian.
She's been a branch librarian.
She is
She believes in working with staff.
She said at the Branch Heads meeting on Friday, library workers make libraries work.
Wow.
She went, wow.
She said to me, she said,
go take a look at my Berkeley library.
It's such a nice library.
She has a very special fondness with it.
She said it's overflowing with books.
She was saying this with a great deal of affection.
She was there for 17 years.
Wouldn't it be great if they could keep her?
Why search the country when you get somebody of her quality?
Well, that's what we said, and she said she's so well set for her retirement.
Who needs to go into this whirlpool, you know?
Well, I think she asked for it.
But she's really calming this.
And this is, we understand, this is the place where she wanted to really end her career, San Francisco.
So this is good for her, and it's good for us, and it will be good for our public.
We'll see what happens.
Yeah.
Okay, so you said something about Tuesday, or what do you want to do?
Well, I'm definitely coming over Wednesday.
So you want to do it Wednesday?
And then you still have Thursday and Friday to take place.
Because I'm hoping to see some of these other people, like Chafee and Walter.
Walter.
Walter wants to see me.
Tilly Olsen.
Definitely.
I've already talked to her.
She says, fine, come see me.
She's great.
This is fine.
So, Andrew, you went from literature?
Literature to humanities.
And then at the end of 92, I was asked if I would like to transfer up to the Special Collections Department.
Yes.
And are there any things that we haven't told Nick?
Oh, a lot.
So do we get to see you again?
I hope, yeah.
I'm here.
Okay, let's send him off to his hotel room so we can go get his decent sleep.
What's your schedule like on... You're booked on Tuesday, Wednesday?
I'm booked tomorrow.
Tuesday's... I'm hoping... She brings a... You know, she's a patron.
She's a writer.
And she uses libraries.
She doesn't have libraries to come up with books to be republished.
And she didn't go to even college.
Right.
Really educated in the public library.
Same as Eric Hoffer.
Eric Hoffer educated himself here in our library.
She wasn't educated in this library, but she moved here in San Francisco.
Eric Hoffer did.
We have big photographs of him in the old literature department.
There are so many writers.
I just interviewed.
I spent time, and I have to go back.
Yeah, because Kerwin's, I mean, he's educated himself in libraries, mostly the L.A.
Public Library.
And he wrote books in libraries, too.
Yeah.
He says that in a preface to the 25th or whatever it is, edition of Florida.
He mentions going over to the library.
Yeah, that's a good thing.
I'm glad you reminded me of that.
I want to tell you something about UC Berkeley.
I had a long talk with a librarian who's a friend of mine who's worked there for many years, and I finally got Susana Hinojosa's office number.
Who is this?
Susana Hinojosa is the union steward there, and she's worked there for 25 years or something.
There's a whole bunch of really great librarians that have worked there for many years.
And Susana Hinojosa is... How do you spell?
S-U-S-A-N-A.
I get Susana.
And H-I-N-O-J-O-S-A.
H-I-N.
O-J-O-S-A.
I know her from Vivian's site.
Is that right?
643-9348.
And Beth was going to... It's 510, right?
Yeah.
So she's... I can't remember what she does exactly there now, but what Beth was saying, a book... He's writing... She's talking about you.
He's writing a book.
We need an article on a book.
It'll take too long.
She said, everything is moving so fast, and
You know, so I told her you wrote articles too, so maybe you'll just do an article about UC Berkeley instead of a book.
Well, what's going on too fast?
Well, it's just they have this blue ribbon committee now to sort of find out what to do about the library, I guess.
Well, what's wrong with the library?
Oh, it's just a terrible mess.
They keep retiring people.
They have no money for the library.
Are we talking now UC Berkeley?
UC Berkeley.
I thought they were not, I thought you, they stopped public access.
Oh, no, no, they just got the reference desk.
They took, yeah, they took out the,
I don't know exactly what's happening, but they closed down the reference desk to do some renovation on it, but it's not clear that it's ever going to be opened again.
I mean, this was the main reading room with a reference desk with librarians.
And they used to get more periodicals than any other library in the country, I think, and now they're, like, way down.
Basically... No, more than Harvard.
I can't imagine it.
Well, maybe they were second to Harvard.
They were number one or number two, you can ask that.
She says there's been a lot of articles written about some of their troubles, but there's a lot of digitization going on.
There's a lot of money going towards digitization and fancy new projects, and nothing there to make sure that the books get on the shelf.
They probably have the books get on the shelf.
Now, they have the room for the books, but they don't have the money for the collections, and they don't have the staff to help people find stuff and teach people how to find stuff.
And they don't have the staff even to shelve the book.
Have they cut down any of your staff?
Have you lost any staff?
Oh, yeah.
By attrition.
Also, they made sure that any of the new librarians that they hired through the Prop E, with the Prop E money, were half-time librarians, and we begged for them to be full-time librarians.
So they're gone.
And because Dallin got into budget trouble,
It was frozen.
Our hiring was frozen and has been for a couple of years.
So we were very short-stepped, hideously short-stepped to the branches.
It's just awful.
And with this new budget, the city's budget director evidently took a snapshot of who was in place as of May 97.
It's not even true.
There are no vacancies in the library right now.
Those vacancies we thought we had that were going to be filled are not going to be filled.
Regina is going to the mayor and asking for petans and pages, and that's all.
Oh, that's outrageous.
We have no, we aren't going to fill any position.
The branches are in desperate straits.
Along with Proposition E, the money, we got Proposition E, the hours, and we had to promise a certain number of open hours per week.
So the Library Commission, in its wisdom,
The minimum specified in Prop E was 10,048 hours a week.
I mean 1,048 hours a week.
And they gave the public 1,192 hours per week.
And it's written in the law.
Once they decided that, that's it.
For five years?
And we're stuck with those hours, and we don't have the staff, and there's nothing we can do about it.
Let's let him go.
So I can have this?
Yes, you can have that.
Kathy, was that John Philbrook is suing the public library?
He will when he leaves his criminal case.
They accused him of child molestation.
that's it this is you this is not a librarian oh this is this is part of the story but but ephemeral at this i mean but peripheral peripheral thank you not ephemeral peripheral at this we don't want it to be ephemeral we don't know that well i'm a lot of he wrote and signed a petition saying the new name library was not big enough oh he did not well designed and was not safe for the staff so
And he's now, he's been out of work for more than a year and a half.
Charged with child molestation.
Well, we don't know how the charges came about.
All we know, there was no due process.
Was there a criminal complaint?
Yes.
How could they trump that up?
Well, we don't know how it happened.
All we know is this one,
It was an event that didn't happen in the library.
It happened in jail.
Yeah, but he's beena grand jury indicted him?
No, no, no.
Grand jury did not indict him.
How come?
Was he facing criminal complaint?
Facing criminal complaint.
That's a felony.
I mean, he didn't go to jail for that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know that he'll have coverage of a lot of crime.
I mean, it's Well, this is a wonderful case to get involved with, because we think he's gay.
We think it's a witch hunt.
We think that they're Well, Colter should be Supporting him.
How do you respond?
I understand that a former employee, a fellow by the name of Phil Brook, circulated a petition
Back in 91.
In 1991.
I would love for you to see the petition.
The thrust of this was that this is a dysfunctional library.
And unsafe.
Unsafe, not enough room for the collection.
It was signed by 32 staff members.
I'm very sure it noticed.
It would have been a lot more if it circulated longer.
This is the point at which it had been designed.
Part of the trouble is that whenever you've got something that you can be of a sex crime in a criminal thing, what would happen is the library, Kathy Page conducted her own investigation.
She can't investigate a criminal thing.
That's what cops are for.
That's right.
Plus, instead of like...
You know, putting him in a different unit or, you know... Giving him a desk job.
Right.
So they took away his income without any kind of due process, and they conducted their own investigation.
Is he fighting it?
Yeah.
Yeah, he's probably going to sue him.
But now he has to go through the case, but we think he's going to win the case.
Because they don't have any evidence.
Does he have a kid?
They have a kid.
The kid is very detailed on everything except the dates.
But the other thing is the kid has brought similar charges, not criminal, but similar charges against everybody he's ever had any contact with, including his father.
Of sexual?
Or just complaint?
Sexual?
So, I mean, a good lawyer will destroy him.
So this kid is a liar.
Yeah.
And John does.
Wilbur circulated a petition saying this is a lousy library.
Yes.
Long before.
In 91.
He saw it.
Yep.
You talked to Sheila Goldmacher about that petition.
So she was the co-author.
They co-wrote the petition.
He actually wrote it.
Oh, yeah, check it out.
What is that one?
Oh, volume one, number two.
This is what we call Barbie.
1991.
Hmm.
Melissa, do you have your piece that you wrote for the Union newspaper about...
Oh, yeah, I think that's the copies of that in here.
Oh, I have one.
There's one on the Union Bulletin Board, too.
I can take down now.
Oh, she's got some.
That's right.
I might have some.
We've got like, you know, millions of people.
So he actually was canned five years after the... Yes, but the thing is, it was at the time when all of these surfaced things.
Yes, and he was requesting a promotion.
He was applying for a promotion.
That's right.
He had the audacity to ask for a promotion.
He was an award-winning librarian.
Devoted to his work.
The question is, why was he accused of this thing by this...
at this particular moment.
Kathy Page heard about this, heard that something was brewing.
She called people into her office and solicited their, wanted them to talk about John Philbrook and anything they knew about him.
Well, the inspector is unable to substantiate and corroborate them.
So he hasn't been charged, then?
Yes.
At that point.
And when they brought him to trial, there were 21 of us that came to support him on the first day of the trial, and the prosecution decided to drop the charges because they got dates off by a year, and the witnesses decided to change their story.
From 1994, they changed the story to 1995, so they had to refile the story.
Well, this is a really good article because it's about the Union Rock.
I don't know if I need this letter.
It's not terrible.
It's the further reaches of this thing.
I think you can keep it for later until we find out what happens.
I'll take it if you want me to take it.
No, like you said, it's ephemeral to the case.
Ephemeral.
You said ephemeral.
This whole file is for you, okay, and you can just return it at your leisure.
This whole package?
Yes.
Okay, good.
It'll take a little while.
It's okay.
Maybe, you know, months.
Oh, and we didn't talk about the catalog at all.
It's a part of what led to this whole thing, too, is that the catalog was so bad, and the point about that was the brushing.
The online catalog.
is that we were not ready to discard the old card catalog.
The online catalog was not up to snuff.
It's incomplete.
And it's not as if the card catalog is so wonderful and so complete and so accurate, but it was an adjunct to a very incomplete online catalog, which has some virtues and many glitches.
So there was no reason to throw it out just because they were moving into a new building.
Just because we needed wall decorations.
Yeah, that's right.
Exactly.
Well, the decorations were already done.
The decorations were from the shelf.
They were not taken from the great old market.
It's an emblem of what it is.
It's old.
Just get rid of it.
We don't need it.
We don't want it.
And we didn't want it in the front hall where people would think it was, you know, the first thing that they saw, and they'd think it was accurate, totally accurately.
We wanted it upstairs, both as an artifact and as an adjunct, and to have the sea references and other things that would help people get started on their search if they couldn't figure out how to use the catalog.
I'm tired.
Let's go.
Okay.
Just a minute.